When you started with the talk , you explained how you do many other things such as TV shows,Youtube videos,Books,Newspaper articles
and they dont even pay.
My first thought was why would one do if it isnt paying?
It is only later that you said that they make you a better speaker and more people approach you because you are not just a speaker but
other things too.

What i derived from it was the following:
All these individual activities can be imagined as a standalone marketing avenues.
Everytime you do any of those things , they act as a surrogate marketing agent which drive people to your main 
bussiness focus : being a Motivatinal Speaker
All these form a loop that all points to the centre "Motivational Speaker". 
And hence you get a compound interest effect on it.

You can notice a similar thing in Chetan Bhagat. His main job is to market his books. 
Earlier he used his IIT/IIM tag to do it. Now he writes for newspapers,judges dance shows which may seem unrelated but it all connects
in the grand sense.

The second thing was when you started explaining about how you got your new school dress.
It was motivating but in my view it was an excellent startup which was executed with extreme care taking care of many things 
that people fail to notice when they start.

You had a clearly defined problem : Bad school dress.
There were 2 paths : Fight or Flight
You choose to Fight.
How to Fight ? 
You decided to use "i get good marks" skills to achieve it.
For us technocrats it usually is "I can code it end to end"

Now you had some constriants : 
Only allowed to go from Home to School and back.

You had many ideas and then settled on "I will teach people".

After this was "Market survey" : you had your product ready. But who will pay for it ?
You divided the class into 3 groups and decided to target people who used to fail.
It is only people who fail will be most amazed when they improve/pass.
A person getting 80 and with your help gets 85 wont be that appreciative.
It is in some sense follows concept of "Marginal utility" from Economics.

You lowered your price so it becomes lucrative for people to use a new product and overcome the barrier to enter the market.

After this you had to scale to 2 people and then more. Most startups are very focussed on delivering product that can support a lot of
people at a time. It takes extra engineering effort to achieve this and they waste a lot of time on this.
You started with 1 person and then incremently scaled up to more.

In between you also said something on the lines of "10x" but i was zoned out at that time 
[even after you Hi Hello trick which was awesome by the way] [sorry] 
Anyhow , Peter Theil in his book "Zero to One" explains something similar regarding your product.


